# **CICADA** 
_Tool to Design Circuits with Error Correction and Detection Abilities_
***
In view of rapid development of microelectronic industry, there is a growing need to ensure reliability and fault tolerance of combinational devices exposed to various destabilizing effects. Сontrol-based approach is often used to improve device fault tolerance. For combinational circuits, these methods are implemented by constructing _concurrent error detection (CED) circuits_. The use of CED circuits makes it possible to solve the problem of heavy structural costs for devices with high reliability.
Control-based methods are often more efficient for the task of synthesis of logic devices with high fault tolerance, however, because of complexity of their development, as well as the absence of any corresponding computer-aided design tools, redundancy methods still remain the most used in practice. It is also worth noting that, depending on the initial parameters and internal structure of the protected combinational circuit, different methods of CED synthesis result in circuits with different reliability characteristics. Thus, designers have difficulties with the choice of one or another architecture. All this leads to the need for methods and software tools that can analyze the case and appoint the best method for synthesizing CED circuit for a specific combinational circuit, and then generate it.
Synthesis of CED circuit involves introduction of some structural redundancy into information bits of the synthesized circuit to deal with the consequences of failures using functional testing methods. Outputs of the protected device are considered as information bits. Such check circuits can independently correct and/or detect errors due to their internal structure. CED circuit synthesis methods are based on redundancy coding of output vectors of combinational circuits. Taking into account specifics of applying error-correcting codes to the problem of fault-tolerant combinational circuits design, check bits and information bits should be calculated in parallel.
***
Software tool **CiCaDA** (design **CI**rcuits with **C**orrection **A**nd **D**etection **A**bilities) for computer-aided design of CED circuit based on redundancy coding methods, for analysis aimed at detecting the best synthesis method for a given combinational circuit and subsequent generation of a device with improved fault tolerance. The use of such system does not require high qualification and deep knowledge in the field of coding theory, which makes it easy for designers to develop faulttolerant logic devices using efficient control-based methods. CICADA requires the following input data: combinational circuit file in Verilog format and user-entered constraint on structural redundancy of the final control circuit. Next, the analytical values of structural redundancy and reliability characteristics are calculated for each of the synthesis methods included in the tool.
***
Articles
======================
1. [Functional Control Circuits CAD System Based on Redundant Coding Methods](http://www.mes-conference.ru/data/year2020/pdf/D064.pdf)
2. [Analysis of Characteristic for CED Circuits Based on Redundant Encoding Methods](http://izv-tn.tti.sfedu.ru/index.php/izv_tn/article/view/379/460)
3. [Method Synthesis CED Circuit Based on Spectral R-code](http://www.mes-conference.ru/data/year2018/pdf/D027.pdf)
